                                          Product Lines for Web Portals 

                                    (Hasitha.Ch, Sravya.B, Ashok.J, Suman.N)



I Introduction

              Software has invaded human lives exponentially over the years. After the evolution of Internet, Business practices proved more effective if the enterprise had a consistent presence in the virtual world. Even the greatness of any Institute was measured in terms of its Exposure. This concept of  Virtual presence compelled IT Companies, Hospitals, Universities, and almost every domain to go live on the Internet. With Time, this practice has extended from mere advertising to managing the Organization’s data in portals. 

              Today, in this realm of Big Data, there is a lot of data to be managed, organized and presented as  portlets for different users. So, the demand for web developers has increased a lot over the last decade. However, people of today and the future want to be more Independent and become entrepreneurs and do everything themselves. Even a housewife wants to design her own portals, but without the minimal coding skills. This led to frameworks which helped build portals or websites with much ease. For simple portals frameworks prove useful, but for large enterprises or universities where there are many child portals to be made there is no easy approach. This led to the idea of a portal factory which can generate portals based on the requirements. In this document, I would like to specify the technical aspects as well as the challenges faced in this experience to build a product line for portals. This project is made open source on Github. Our team consists of 3 students and myself from the Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sri City.

II Overview

             The main idea of the project is to create a product line and prove it to be effective in generating portals which can be customized. One example case which I would take is a University as there are many varied types of portals needed in this case like Hostel Portal, Library Portal, Mess Portal, Courses Portal, Campus News Portal, Student Portal, Sharing Portal, Clubs Portal etc.


II.(a)  Customers 

              Customers of the system would be many Universities as it is convenient to use uniform but  customized portals, all those Entrepreneurs who hate coding, all those Enterprises or Companies which cannot compromise on time-to-market by wasting time in making portals, etc.
 

II.(b)  Functionality

This section should list the overall functionality of the system.  List each functionality and provide 2-3 line description of the functionality. It is important to note that the teams may not develop each functionality provided in this list. The scope of the project should be described in Section 3.

This section and section 3 should provide you the basis for the requirements document. 



II.(c) Platform

The platform in this case is a web-based one as we are using php admin for the front end and mysql for the back end.

II.(d) Development Responsibility

Details about development responsibility, maintenance responsibility, licensing issues should be noted down here. 
For example, the following may be the content of this section: 

The openXYZ team will be responsible for implementing the functionality that they commit to in Section 3 of this document.  It is expected that a team from the SERL will be responsible for developing the database for the XYZ system. The openXYZ will not be responsible for creation of the database.


III. Goals and Scope

Section 2 outlined the overall functionality of project. This section should detail the functionality that the OpenXYZ team intends to implement for the final release in November 2011.

This section should step through the functionality listed in section 2.2 and detail specifically what is in or out of scope for the final release.

IV Deliverables

This section should describe what the OpenXYZ team will deliver to the sponsor throughout the course of development. 

For example, Feature specification (requirements), product design (design document), test plan, deployment document, source code, etc. 

Each team may have some specific deliverables outside of the SSAD course deliverables.

V  Risk Management
	
V.(a)  Risk Identification

Identify and list down the details of various risks in this project. For example you should detail the technology risks, resource risks, scope creep, etc. 

V.(b)  Risk Mitigation

This section will describe what will be done to mitigate the risks listed in section 5.1.  The list should follows the same order as section 5.1. 

 
VI Scheduling and Estimates
 
You should set milestones and try to stick to the schedule. An example release schedule is provided here:


Milestone	Description	Release Date	Release Iteration
M1	user management, basic distributed filesystem	September 30, 2011	R1
M2	project management, basic distributed filesystem	October 7, 2011	R1
M3	user groups and permissions	October 14, 2011	R1
M4	SCM, issue tracker	October 24, 20011	R2
M5	issue tracker, user reviews, web design integration	November 1, 2011	R2
M6	filesystem node management, web design integration	November 14, 2011	R2

A more detailed description of the features for each milestone should be provided in the requirements document (using use cases).


VII Technical Process

This section will provide a summary of the team's technical process. 

(Hint: In your own word explain the incremental iterative process) 

 



